[0s - 60s]: You're welcome to this class.  My name is Dr. Imanek Adha.  I want to be taking you on the Johnny Toe S.  Computer Literacy and especially for teachers and lecturers.  Now I want to make sure that as a teacher,  as a lecturer you're able to teach in the class using your computer  and to become more effective and more efficient in the course of delivering your lectures.  And now we're assuming that we don't understand anybody's computer.  So we want to put those people that are still actually at the bottom of the ladder.  And they want to say that's one of the topics you're saying using the computer for the first time.  Here we have our computer.  So using the computer for the first time, you look for the power button.  Here's a laptop that you look at the front here, the front of the computer here, the
[60s - 120s]: back of this area.  You would normally say the switch button, the on and off button.  So the power button is here.  In this case is here.  I'll just press it.  Put it on.  I press it.  And it's coming on.  There's a computer.  It's coming on.  And the press off, preparing these files to work.  It's what we call booting.  So the system is booting now.  You may call it a computer system.  You may call it a PC.  And so, so it's what I say is my system is working.  It's also telling you my computer is working.  It's booting up now.  The time it takes to boot up completely depends on the speed of the computer.  It has got into the point.  At this point, what you do is to click on any space.  Just take your mouse and click.  And you can say this attached a mouse to the system.  I say beginner is good by a mouse and attached it to the system.
[120s - 180s]: So it's more flexible.  Okay, when you use the mouse, it's more flexible.  So you just take your mouse.  This button to the left is where you click.  The right side is where you right click.  Now how do you handle the mouse?  This is the mouse.  You use your thumb and one, two, three.  I have the third finger.  Two, hold it.  This is it.  Okay, this is it.  So when you hold it with these two fingers, you arrest the first finger on the left button  and your second finger on the second button here.  Okay, and it places.  You place this point of your hand on the table on the surface.  And you move like this.  Okay, you move like this.  You don't cover it with the whole of your hand.  This is not how to move the mouse.  You don't move the mouse like this wrong.  Or you need just two fingers.
[180s - 240s]: You just lift it.  Okay, place this point here on the foreground.  Okay, and on the surface, you just move.  I saw it doing, you're going to have an accurate movement.  So, handle the mouse.  Just your thumb and your finger on the three.  Pick it.  You arrest this on the table and you start moving.  And also, some of us as you move the mouse, you will click once you click.  You lift up your finger like that.  You click the bell.  That's wrong.  You click.  Yes.  So, it's now asking for password.  You click.  The mouse here and you click on the space and you enter the password.  That's my password.  That's it.  So, it has locked me into the system.  When the computer puts up, what you see is what you call the desktop.
[240s - 300s]: Okay, after putting on the computer and working for the day, you want to shut down.  You go down to the bottom left corner.  Here's the windows icon.  You click on it once.  You click on this first item here.  There's this game, there's the power.  Click on it once.  If you want to shut down, select this option, shut down.  If you want to restart the computer, click on this, it will shut down and restart by itself.  Then if maybe you are busy doing something, you don't want to, and you don't want anybody  to access it while you're away, you click on sleep.  When you click on sleep, next time, you click on Unito, log into the system to continue  the use of the computer.
[300s - 360s]: In the system, you have icons on the desktop.  Now icons are the desktop, and an icon is actually a picture that represents a software,  a tutorial representation of a program in the computer.  The programs are being installed when the computer is represented by icons.  This space here, this empty space is called the wallpaper.  There's a wallpaper.  At the bottom, at the bottom, you have the taskbar.  This is the taskbar.  The bottom is called the taskbar.  If you go to the left, this left here, there's a task button here.  You click on it once, pops up the window.  You see the pop-up menu and move it.
[360s - 420s]: These are the programs that are being installed.  If you scroll your mouse, you can scroll it down.  Meanwhile, the programs are arranged in a physical order.  In a physical order, whichever one wants to run, you can click on it and start using it.  These are icons on the taskbar.  Click on them once.  This is Microsoft One Notes.  This is Microsoft Word.  This is Muslim Firefox, the browser, the browser, the internet, and so on.  Now, for example, if you go to the right side here, you have this your date to the date.  For that, click on this date now.  This way, you adjust your date.  You can go up, go up.
[420s - 480s]: You can see adjust date's lifetime.  You click on it.  Now, this current date's lifetime is set time automatically.  That means if you're currently on the internet, then it should use the entire time to set the local time here.  If you want to correct the time, you click on it.  Then you want to set the time manually.  You can go up, you can set the date's lifetime manually.  Once you put this off, it becomes disabled now.  See, it becomes disabled.  You click on it.  Change it at time.  Change the date here.  You can just click for the date.  Like that, this is the month and so on.  There's the time.  You click on change at the end.
[480s - 540s]: My time here is correct.  I just leave here by clicking on cancel.  Now, I want my time to be controlled by the internet time.  I just come here and say set time automatically.  Meanwhile, for you to set time automatically,  you must make sure that your time zone is correct.  Set time zone automatically is off here.  For example, I'll come here and set the time zone here.  Let me respond.  I'll set it as I reset here.  I'll have to open this and set the time zone that corresponds  with your graphical location.  This west central Africa.  That's my time zone.  That's why I have to say that I should put off set time zone manually.
[540s - 600s]: This model of the capitals off now.  The automatic version is off.  So set time automatically.  Click on it.  Yes.  So, if you use the internet to set my time.  I'll try to put all my changes.  I can close this.  That's for the time.  If you click on it once,  that's it.  If you come up, you can click on the body.  You hear that?  You hear that?  That's it.  So you can adjust the volume here.  Then you click and drag to the left to adjust the volume.  Click and drag to the right to increase the volume.  That is the speaker.  Then you can adjust the speaker.  Then another thing.  When you are here, this search field here can use it to run the program  or you can use it to search for files also.  For example, you want to search for a file.  The content that the CCS card, the CCS card demo for example,
[600s - 660s]: see, this is a folder.  You just click on that.  That's it.  That's it.  So this is the CCS card demo.  You just set for files, folders and programs.  For example, you can run your program here too.  You may want to open Microsoft Word program.  I just say, Word.  Okay, that's the type Word did.  Press Enter.  Thanks Microsoft Word for you.  We shall go through this once later.  Now to use Microsoft Word.  Then close this.  For example, we want to use the program called PowerPoint.  Just click to click that and just type PowerPoint.  PowerPoint.  Press Enter.
[660s - 720s]: You can see it appeared already.  Press Enter.  That's how to run programs using this text field.  Okay, so this is our desktop.  Let me close this.  Now on the desktop, you may want to find some things on it.  Okay, that file.  So what you do, personalizing your desktop,  you just right click.  I want to make sure that's on that Windows Explorer.  What's called Windows Explorer.  In Windows 7, it's called Windows Explorer.  When you Windows 10, they just call it Fire Explorer.  Or Windows Fire Explorer.  So open Windows Fire Explorer.  The better you just open your computer here from the desktop.  You bring the icons here.  So you right click to bring the icons here.  Right click.
[720s - 780s]: Click on Personalize.  Personalize.  Then I've got two things.  Things become things here.  Okay, then scroll down.  I'll scroll down.  Okay, you see desktop icon settings.  Click on this desktop icon settings.  Just click on No.  That's it.  That's it here.  Okay, there's it here.  Just click.  I want this to be on my desktop.  So you check on that.  I want to computer to be there.  I want to be as fast as to be there.  I want network.  I want a cycle being.  I want control panel to be there.  After that, click on Apply.  Click OK.  It's OK.
[780s - 840s]: So close the window.  So what this I've been able to bring this PC is the computer.  Okay, in Windows 7 you call this computer.  But in Windows 10 you say it's this PC.  The same thing.  This admin.  Okay, so anytime I want to open Windows Explorer,  I will use this but let's go ahead first.  I'll get to Windows Explorer.  I will explain more in details.  Here, let us look at Windows Explorer.  Good.  We use it to organize files and folders in the system.  Now, what is Windows Explorer again?  It's actually a system software.  In the computer you have two types of software.  You have the system software and you have the application software.  Since that software is the one that comes with the computer and it uses to organize its files.
[840s - 900s]: Okay, while the application software is what you use to carry out your jobs  or you use to produce jobs to do whatever you want to do in the computer,  it is actually called an application software.  The samples are application software.  So Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Core Draw, and so on.  So now, Windows Explorer or Windows File Explorer, how do you open it?  You see I brought this up.  This PC can open this.  Now, what we are seeing here is Windows File Explorer.  This Windows Explorer.  This whole phone.  What we are seeing here is Windows Explorer.  This is the left pane.  If you select anything on the left side here, you will see it on the right hand side.  And actually, this is the whole of your computer.  This is this PC.
[900s - 960s]: If I click on this, you can see this is the content.  My computer has been partitioned into two.  So I have Drive C and also Drive D.  But if you open your system, your computer, you may just have C there.  You may have C and also this is your DVD room.  It is your DVD room where you put in your DVD or your CD.  So this is a counter.  You click on an object here.  You will see the content of the object on the right hand side here.  First of all, this computer, for example, this document.  This document now.  These are all the files in the document.  It starts organizing them by bringing forth the folders.  These are the folders.  Price cruel, these are files.  Fires on the folders.  This document is pictures.  That was it.
[960s - 1020s]: And this desktop.  This desktop you are seeing here.  If I open this place, I click on Desktop here.  Or this file you are seeing here.  And if I click on Desktop, then let's go home.  This is the PC.  I said this is the PC.  This gives you the details of the files in the computer.  So this Windows file explorer.  I am not even working on it here.  It is how files are displayed.  I want to open this document.  I have double click on it.  Now you can have different views of your files and folders.  Do not crack click on empty space here.  Empty space make sure you are not selecting that,  crack click on empty space.  After all that you have done some, after the config,  or my system, you choose those ones later.  So like I said, view correctly.
[1020s - 1080s]: The correct reason is details.  If I say extra large icons can sit at.  Press on drop, or I just scroll, click the external icons, correct click on it, click on view,  or say medium icons, good, the icons, okay, the folders, the folders, okay, the files, correct click again,  so the person you, you can view it whichever you want, whichever way you want, so the small icons,  okay, that's it, that's it, so this is how to arrange your objects, your items, the Windows Explorer,  so actually view them, I don't know if I want to show you too, is how to arrange your items,  maybe you want to arrange them according to maybe the file size, or according to the name,  the file name, or the type, and so on, so you right click, okay, it's called sorting,
[1080s - 1140s]: correct click on the empty space as well, click on sort by, you can see that, this sort by name,  okay, this sort by type, this sort of ascending for descending, okay, so if you need more, click on more,  for example, if I want to sort all these files, with the date, do you have created, go down,  go down, go down, and see that, can see that, can see that, can see that,  can see that, the date access, okay, can see, date created, date created,  you can also add more, whichever way you click here, we added to that list, date created,
[1140s - 1200s]: click on, okay, back on here now, right click,  can see it's sort by, okay, date created, going on, can see that,  so sorting down by date created, okay, before you to confirm our right click,  okay, or active then, and say new details, details, we put everything in online,  okay, now go back and say, sorted again, sort by, okay, date created, so this is selected,  so this is selected, okay, so you come here, go to the date, can see, date created, can see the date there,  see this, 21st, so this 20th, so this 20th, so this 20th, okay, in the same June,
[1200s - 1260s]: okay, 20th, 22, can see that this 21st, this is actually reducing, date is reducing,  okay, but I mean, go to the 20th, yeah, it starts from, it starts changing,  from files to folders, okay, that's why I've seen that, so that's how to actually view your files  in Windows Explorer, one of such an entry click on this, click on it here,  you'll see the content on the right hand side here, okay, as I said, these documents,  these downloads, these downloads, when you visit the internet, and you download things,  they come into this folder, call downloads, how do you visit downloads folder,  if it's not here, go to PC, okay, go to PC, then you open C drive, okay,  then you go to users, users, on that users, all the user names created in this copy,
[1260s - 1320s]: it's going to be either appear here, so my conclaces, I mean, I'll double click and open it,  I mean, okay, so on that I mean, I'm going to sit my folder, there's downloads,  okay, there's downloads, I can double click and open it, there's the files that I have downloaded,  it's actually Apple's web, you have a computer where you have one that won't use a name,  okay, so you have one that won't use a name, when you download using a given user that's logged in,  if you open downloads folder, when a user is logged in, it may not find those files that we actually downloaded,  because the files are downloaded in the press is profile, this can profile, for example, in this computer,  so with this, this help to actually use Windows Explorer,  that the shortcut key of opening Windows Explorer is Windows E,  the window key or your keyboard, you press it and key E, in quick succession,
[1320s - 1380s]: window E of press my own, that is it, window E very fast, can use one hand,  okay, use one hand, your tone, or be on the Windows key,  while your second finger or press the key E, just like that with one hand,  your left hand, of course, you can open Windows Explorer with the shortcut Windows E,  you press it fast, Windows E, Windows E, okay, so that was it.  Number seven, working with files and folders,  here we're going to learn this on the screen, or we have on the screen,  number one, viewing files and folders, to check that the other time,  okay, and I just repeat it, viewing files and folders,  I told you that some can open Windows Explorer, Windows E,  okay, Windows E, you can decide to right click,
[1380s - 1440s]: okay, right click on the right-click space to come view,  then choose any of these options, okay, to view your files and folders,  okay, that was just a view, files and folders,  let me leave here, close this, okay, let's put it close it,  number two, sorting files and folders,  pretend that two, okay, while we're treating Windows Explorer,  remember, we sorted files and folders, then,  how to create a folder, go and number three,  let's see how to create a folder,  in more folder known, you have people creating files and folders,  everyone in the desktop is not supposed to be,  if you must have a folder on the desktop, what I do,  I just create one folder and I call it temp, okay,  just create one folder here, all right click,  come down, click on new,
[1440s - 1500s]: here you go and select far folder, this folder here,  click on this folder,  give me the name, I call mine temp, okay, temp,  press enter, that's it, so you've created a folder,  it's as easy as that, to create a folder,  you right click, and I'm empty space, okay,  you move down, select new, then, click on folder,  now, anytime, I have the cost to store something on my desktop,  I'll better save it inside the temp folder here,  so to make your desktop to be neat, okay,  you have a neat desktop, know that you have a desktop,  and it's just so hard for that,  it's a little bit of files and folders,  you don't know which of them is application,  you know which of them is the folder,  okay, so it's better just create one folder on your desktop,
[1500s - 1560s]: and you can now store all your files in it,  I'll put it, can store all your files  that are supposed to be on the desktop,  in this single folder called temp, okay,  so let's leave here, so we're talking about that  to create folder, normally create your folders  inside the documents folder,  so let's go Windows E,  go to documents, on your left is document,  it's document, so these are my files,  my files, for as a teacher,  you want to create folders for your lessons,  okay, you can go, you can go,  you want to create the folder first,  right click, go to new, okay,  then go to folder,  and say lesson notes, okay,  or sorry,  now, eventually, stop that,  if you have to do so many of us,  you can see the new folder,  you just click on it,
[1560s - 1620s]: right click on it,  and say a rename,  I'll call it lesson notes,  okay, lesson notes,  press enter to accept it,  okay, that's how to create a folder,  I created a folder,  now as you mean, in that lesson note,  I asked many subjects,  or other subjects,  I would double click on it to open it,  okay,  or I keep my subjects there,  I'll create a folder each,  for your subject,  new, okay,  in this language,  in this language, press enter,  okay,  I'll click new,  on the folder,  you have a,  you have a map,  press enter,  press enter,  another folder,  okay,  new,  I have say,  biology,  enter,
[1620s - 1680s]: another folder,  let's say,  what's the name,  let's say literature,  okay,  so, you can say,  I've created,  of these folders,  if you watch,  they are being ordered,  alphabetically, okay,  they are alphabetically ordered.  So, by the time you create this,  maybe talking about mathematics,  you open it,  this mathematics, okay,  you can say,  map,  mathematics,  you can say,  this is another,  JSS1,  JSS1,  that's a G in a second school,  that will operate in Nigeria,  okay,  so, go again,  like that,  JSS2,  JSS2,  okay,  so, go again,  new,  JSS3,
[1680s - 1740s]: like that, okay,  at the end,  you go to the subject,  you get this JSS1,  and I'll say,  give it times there,  first time, okay,  because they first time,  because they first time,  thousand,  first time,  okay,  JSS2,  JSS2,  JSS2,  JSS3,  JSS3,  JSS3,  okay,  so, after creating folders,  that is,  it's very easy for you to,  to actually,  manage your work,  okay,  you can say,  we have,  you can put this,  you can see,  this map,  this,  JSS1,  first time,  or the working out,  first time,  you'll be stored in this folder,  okay,  so that's how to create folders,
[1740s - 1800s]: create folders,  inside folders,  inside folder,  you can be nested,  okay,  so,  this how to create a folder,  let's go back,  you'll,  next thing,  rename it a folder,  it's not difficult,  don't, don't,  no,  we did it the other time,  number four,  rename it a folder,  okay,  come here,  let me open this,  this,  this,  triple two,  one,  two,  two,  two,  two,  two,  three,  two,  three,  two,  okay,  fine,  these.  Okay,  the 오마,  listen,  these.  Listen,  listen.  Here,  there,  here,  there,  now  it looks like a firmware to get it.  I'llAdivo Enfronted it for
[1800s - 1860s]: implementing it,  Okay, good. Press Enter. Yes, by so doing, I have renamed the folder from literature to  literature in English. That's what it meant by the short cut is just selected and press  F2K, F2. If you look at the first row of your keyboard, going from the left to the right,  okay, you see the second key there. Okay, you are the first, you actually escape. After  I escape your F1, okay, then you have F2. That's the F2. If you press the F2 key, you can  see it up on my system. It's going to highlight it. It's going to rename it. So what you do,  you just click inside and type whatever change you want to make. Click outside. So that's  how to rename a file. The short cut is you select the item you want to rename and you  press key F2, F2 key. When you click on it, you go down and you select rename. Okay, the
[1860s - 1920s]: next thing, let's look at copy and files into a folder. That's so easy. Copy and files into a folder.  Okay, I've come here now. It's my document. My document. I have a lot of files here. This is  one fish. Okay, it's a well-fired, it's a sound file. Okay, it's general demo of click on it.  I will just press Ctrl C on my keyboard. Or you right click on it, right click on it, right,  right click. Okay, right click. It's not left click. You're going to right click on it, then you  move your mouse down until you get to copy. Then you click on copy. Good. Now it is on my  click board. The click board is the position where you have this pointer. Okay, so I've copied it.  You go back to documents. What is it there? What's on lesson? Okay, double click. Maybe I want to
[1920s - 1980s]: put the file. It was general demo. I put it inside. I don't know the folder. I will double click on it.  There are two ways. See there are like click here. After you can paste or open the site.  Okay, right click in the empty space. Just right click on the empty space. And you select paste as well.  Confused. Yes. Why it's coming? Asking me what is it saying. It's a destination folder. It's a  soft folder of the source folder. Okay, let's keep. Let's keep. Okay, let's go back. Let's go  copy again. Let's go back again. Documents. Okay, if you click on something, general demo, I just  right click. Let's say copy. Okay, then go back to I'm taking the folder into lessons. Note. Okay,  biology. All right click and paste it there.
[1980s - 2040s]: Paste it here. Yes, does it. I see that general demo. So I've copied that into that. You can  assign copy and folder from one given location to another. Okay, can do that as well.  And it's not common when you want to transfer a file from one computer to another. You use all  called flash drive. Okay, copy into the flash drive. You take it to the other one. In the process of  our trainings, I'll teach you all those ones. I'll take you through all those soon in the course  of our training. Just remain. Those commuter visits my YouTube channel CCSCAT. In this case,  you have I help CCSCAT world CCSCAT PowerPoint CCSCAT Windows. Okay, and CCSCAT itself. So in this  case, don't visit CCSCAT Windows. Okay, CCSCAT Windows is going to be there.
[2040s - 2100s]: How to copy files from one computer to another is going to be there. So that's continuing.  Deleting the folder. Deleting a file. Deleting a file is not difficult. And make sure you don't  delete what you have not created. Okay, you might be costing a lot of a book. Do not delete what you  haven't created at all. You can only delete the file you have created. So I'll talk to you. We'll  actually do that much. Okay, this is biology. We brought this one here. You can delete it. Just click  the press delete key. But do a keyboard. Okay, while you right click on it. Okay.  And click on delete here. It's going. It's going to close this. Now, when you delete something,
[2100s - 2160s]: probably you delete the narrow. You can go back to your cycle bin. This is the cycle bin. You open  double click on it. Okay, it was a demo something. Then general demo. See, click on it. And you  right click on it. And you say restore. Okay, when you delete something, it goes to the  cycle bin. When you delete files that fold us, they go to the cycle bin. So you click on restore here.  It's going. It's going. So to be sure, go to documents. Okay,  before that, lessen notes. Okay, biology. Good. That is it. Just restore to its original location.  The same thing goes for folders. Okay, because this is that delete me folder. It's the same thing.
[2160s - 2220s]: Why you do to delete the file you also do to delete the folder. Okay, just right click on it.  Because I want to remove these mathematics. I'll just right click on it. I click on delete.  And if you go, it's gone. Okay, to get it back, it goes to your cycle bin. Your cycle bin.  You can end. And again, that's it. Mathematics. Okay, so you right click on it and say restore.  But actually, if you don't want it back again, you want to delete it completely from the computer.  When you actually go to here, you click on delete. Okay, I'll tell you this. It will leave the cycle bin.  We use which means you cannot retrieve it anymore.  Just the processing.  Good. You see, are you sure you want to permanently delete this folder? I'll say yes.
[2220s - 2280s]: It's gone. So it was not restored. It was the death of this place. It should go completely.  I tell you what this was finished on how to work with files and folders. Let's continue on our journey.  The next thing is adjusting your working environment.  I'm going there. Adjusting screen resolution.  Screen resolution. So adjust the screen resolution. We're actually going to desktop.  But first of all, what is screen resolution? Screen resolution is the amount of pixels.  Okay, that's quite inch. As you see the screen. Okay, that is the size of items on the computer.
[2280s - 2340s]: How large they're going to be or how small they're going to be is what you call screen resolution.  Now, the bigger the screen resolution, the smaller the items.  Okay, the lower the resolution, the screen resolution, the larger the items on the screen.  Let me go again. Where you have a high screen resolution, the items on your screen are going to be small.  Okay, well, if you have a low screen resolution, the items on your screen are going to be what?  Large. So adjust the screen resolution. You right click on the empty space on the desktop.  Just right click. You click on display settings.
[2340s - 2400s]: It's coming up. Okay. Come here. You scroll. My mouse is here. Just scroll.  Close scroll.  Consider display resolution. What I have now is 1280 by 720. The first item here stands for the width.  What is this stands for the height? Okay, so it is 1280 width by 720 height.  Come here. Open it. So it should be 731. Okay, you want this? Can put this this  on the right by 600. There's a minimum resolution. You'll always find on all the computers. Okay,  your PC. Follow this the minimum. So for example, let me choose this. I'll click.  Can you see that? That's coming. Keep this display settings. Hold or keep it. I'll click on this.  Keep changes. That's 800 by 600. Let me minimize. You can see the size of the items on the screen.
[2400s - 2460s]: Okay, it's changed. Let me go back. Just click on it here. Go back.  1280 by 720. Okay, keep changes.  Say it's back now. So that is it. So that's how to adjust screen resolution.  For the other advanced, that's your site. So the two bits are affected. The cancelsclyc  is good to reduce the resolution so that the size of the items on your screen can be larger.  Okay, two set system dates to time. I've done that in the past. Remember,  so the system dates to time. We just go to time. Come here right click. Come here. Okay,  you go up adjust date. Come time. Let me call that. Okay,
[2460s - 2520s]: this is a title but you drag it by this. Just press and drag. You want to move any form to click  at the top here. Hold it down and move it wherever you want it to be. Okay, so this is it. So  current date and time is set time automatically. Okay, so this way this now, the internet is going to  actually call the system for you. It has this region and so on. Okay, so let's close this.  Next is setting wallpaper. wallpaper is not difficult. The same thing you just right click.  You want to set the wallpaper. Okay, the background. We're actually going to empty space.  Then you click on personalize.
[2520s - 2580s]: Okay, this background. Click on this background. This scroll, call down your scroll. This way is  there correctly. If I want this, I'll just click on this. I've clicked on it already.  That is it. That's how to change the background of the desktop. Okay, that is choose fits.  Okay, a time is possible that the picture is not a wide knob. So you can choose any option here.  There's a stretch, tile, center, and so on. Let's leave it like that. Let me return to  had to what before this, this, this. Okay, that's how to change the wallpaper.  Configure the mouse. Okay, let's say I have to configure a mouse. To configure your mouse,  you go to control panel. Okay, without add-in, we have control panel here. This is it. I will have
[2580s - 2640s]: open that the option that we don't fail you is to type history. So just click here on the  search field and type control. Control panel. If once you just type control alone, you won't see  that. Okay, type control. You see control panel. Press enter. It's coming up. Okay, so what you do,  is possible. I've opened mine before that's why it's like this. When you open it for the first time,  it's going to be this in this form. Yes, it's going to be in this form. When you open your control  panel for the first time, that's why you see there. So you can go there, open it and say small icons.  Now we're going to mouse this mouse. You click on mouse here. Okay, these are the center here.  Click on mouse. Wars.  Okay, then you go to point us. Okay, on that point, just you open here. Okay,
[2640s - 2700s]: but normally maybe smaller than this. So make sure you come down this one two three four. Okay,  consider five extra large system scheme. That's this one. Okay, extra large system scheme.  I know that I'm using now. So I did bigger. You know, it's what I'm using now. So you must have  using the smaller one, which is the, the, the, this one. Can you see? No, she's small.  That's a perfect bigger class point, but you can't get in the classroom. The one, the pupils,  the students, to see your mouse pointer. So you can open this one two three four five.  Does it come up? Apply. We come here point options, point options, then just maybe like this.  Be sure you check this, check on this. Then you click on apply.
[2700s - 2760s]: Now do the other things you can also configure the speed. Okay, can you see?  Select a point of speed. You can drag this mess just leave them like that. Default value.  Click on okay.  Good. That's how to configure mouse. At the same time, you can go online and get mouse pointer  software. Okay, can you stop? For example, I have this one. I have this, this is what I have. You  can see this, this is my mouse pointer software. It costs that way. I'm moving the mouse pointer.  I'm moving your mouse. The pupils for the students will be able to see it clearly. Okay,  they know what you actually try to explain. You could back here.  Okay.
[2760s - 2820s]: Trying to look okay.  Next thing is adjusting screen text size. Screen text size. Number five.  Now in this case, in this case, you want to be the text when your screen to be visible. Okay,  apart from reducing the resolution of the system, you can as well increase the size of the text.  How do you do that? You just right click, right click, click on personalize. Okay, but click on  display settings. Any of them will take you there. So display settings.  You click here, click here and you type text size.  Text size. You can see the options here. Change the size of text, apps, another add text. Okay,
[2820s - 2880s]: but in my case, I don't want to change the text size. So you click on this, make text size bigger.  Okay, click on that.  Okay.  Good. You can see it. So here, already have 140. We just press this,  drag it. Okay, I want to make it bigger now. I see it's playing bigger. This 174, click on apply.  Okay.  Can you see that? Can you see that? They are bigger now. Can you see that? Good.  You see, they all increase the size. So this side, you can adjust the size of text of your system.  If you go to Windows Explorer, for example, let me just put this computer, this PC,  can see how, like that, can see it. Can see the items that are so large. Let me take the back,  just like we call the desktop. You see that? Display settings.
[2880s - 2940s]: Okay, click here, text size.  Next, come here, make text size bigger.  Come here, take it back to 140. Press and drag to the left.  All 40, okay. That's 140. Click on apply.  Beautiful. So it's back to the original text size. This is, so that's how to adjust screen text size.  We have come to the end of these tutorials and I want you to actually like my videos.
[2940s - 3000s]: Click on the subscribe button down and at the same time you can send me your comments.  And if you did something, we didn't do well. You can as well tell me just indicate.  Improvenient. Now I want you to go to my YouTube channel. If you are interested in learning  Windows, you want to be better in how to manage the system, just search for CCS card Windows.  Okay, if you are interested in Microsoft Word, you want to learn Microsoft Word, set for CCS card  Word. Okay, if you are interested in PowerPoint, also type CCS card PowerPoint. Then if you want to learn,  CCS card itself, which is computer editing, just type CCS card as well. Set Word in YouTube and you  will see all the trainings there or how to actually computerize your teaching. Thank you for your  audience. Thank you for following me to know. I want you to visit our website and see more
[3000s - 3060s]: resources and also have to get the software, CCS card software for managing your content.  Have to be your content. Everything is there on our website. See you next time.
